---
title: "Web3Auth MPC Core Kit iOS SDK"
displayed_sidebar: sdk
sidebar_label: Overview
description: "Web3Auth MPC Core Kit iOS SDK | Documentation - Web3Auth"
---

import Image1 from "@site/static/images/tkey-mpc-flow.png";

Web3Auth's [mpc-core-kit-swift](https://github.com/Web3Auth/mpc-core-kit-swift) SDK is simple and
easy-to-use SDK, which helps you implement the Web3Auth MPC Features while giving you the
flexibility to customize the UI and UX of the authentication process.

## This Documentation is based on [`1.0.0`](https://github.com/Web3Auth/mpc-core-kit-swift/releases) SDK Version.

## Requirements

- iOS 14+
- Xcode 11.4+ / 12.x
- Swift 4.x / 5.x

:::note

The minimum [pricing plan](https://web3auth.io/pricing.html) to use this SDK in a production
environment is the **Enterprise Plan**. However, you can use this SDK with all features enabled in
the development environment for free.

:::

## Web3Auth MPC Infrastructure Components

With the Web3Auth infrastructure, your key is divided into multiple parts and stored across your
devices and our Auth Network. This ensures that your key is always available and never stored in a
single place. While in the traditional Web3Auth SDK, your key was dynamically reconstructed in the
frontend using threshold signatures, with the new Web3Auth MPC (Multi Party Computation)
architecture, it is **never reconstructed**. Instead, these partial keys are stored across different
locations, and your device is used to make partial signatures for your message/ transaction. These
are finally returned to the frontend where using TSS (Threshold Signature Scheme), these signatures
are combined to make a final signature. You can use this finally signed message/transaction to make
a transaction on the blockchain.

The Threshold Signature Scheme (TSS) is a cryptographic primitive for distributed key generation and
signing. The use of TSS in Web3Auth's Auth network is a new paradigm that can provide numerous
benefits, especially in terms of security.

<img
  style={{ display: "block", margin: "20px auto" }}
  src={Image1}
  alt="Web3Auth Wallet Management"
/>

As you can notice in this diagram above, the final output, i.e., the User's TSS Account, is
generated in multiple stages within the infrastructure. Since this is a TSS- MPC based
infrastructure, you don't get back a private key, but signatures that can be used to make
transactions on the blockchain. Let's understand each of these stages in detail.

### Factors

#### Social Login Factor

This is the primary way for a user to access their account. This step involves authentication using
a user's preferred social login provider. The idToken received from the social login provider here
is passed to the Web3Auth Auth Network to generate the TSS Shares in the Nodes. By default, these
nodes have a threshold of 3/5 that can be customized according to requirements. When a user logs in,
the Auth Network generates signatures corresponding to the TSS Shares in the nodes and returns them
to the user's end. These signatures are then used alongside other shares to generate the final TSS
Account signatures.

#### Device Factor (`index:2`)

This is the second factor used to access the user's account. This step involves the generation of a
TSS Share on the user's device and using that to generate a final signature for the TSS Account
alongside the social login factor. This ensures the user logs in using their trusted device and
maintains a proper non-custodial setup.

#### Backup Factor (`index:3`)

A user has a choice to generate as many backup factors as needed to access their account. This step
involves the generation of a TSS Share on the user's end and storing them in whichever location they
prefer. This share can be used similarly to the device share to generate a final signature for the
TSS Account alongside the social login and/or device factors.

### Threshold

The threshold is the minimum number of shares required to generate a final signature for the TSS
Account. This threshold, by default, is set to 3/5 on the Auth Network and 2/3 for the user's device
front. This ensures high availability and ease of access on both ends alongside optimum security.
Both these thresholds can be customized according to the requirements.

### Components of a Factor

#### TSS Shares

The TSS Shares are the main component needed for the generation of the final working signature of
the user. These shares are generated using distributed key generation and are stored in the Auth
Network and the user's device. Since these shares are generated using MPC, they are **never
reconstructed** and always stay decentralized and secure.

#### Metadata Key & Shares

The Metadata Key closely mimics the storage of the TSS Shares. The only difference is that the
metadata key is always reconstructed and used for its encryption/decryption capabilities. It
utilizes basic Shamir's Secret Sharing and is initially generated on a user's front end. The
metadata key is utilized for the encryption/decryption of the user metadata stored in the Web3Auth
Metadata Server.

One metadata share gives you the **read** access to the metadata server, while two or more (as the
threshold is reached) give you the **write** access.

#### Factor Keys

To enable refresh, deletion, and rotational capabilities on the `tssKey`, we also introduce
**factorKeys**. Factor Keys are randomly generated keys unique to each factor-generated user's
device and backups, like users' phones, chrome extensions, on their cloud, assisting third parties,
etc.

As share to the TSS Key and/or Metadata Key may rotate, Factor Keys allow a consistent secret to be
saved in these different locations.

## Understanding the MPC Core Kit SDK Flow

By default, for a new user, the MPC Core Kit SDK starts in a 2/2 flow. This means that the user will
have to generate a social login factor and a hashed cloud factor. This hashed cloud factor is
derived on the SDK front end and stored in the encrypted metadata server. This enables the user to
start the login process from any device without creating an MFA factor.

This is done to make sure the user can access their account from any device without having to
generate a new factor. However, this makes the initial onboarding, semi-custodial. To make the
onboarding completely non-custodial, the user can use the `enableMfa` feature to generate a device
and backup factor and delete the hashed cloud factor. This makes the user's account completely
non-custodial in 2/3 setup and enables them to access their account from any device using the backup
share. Device share is saved on a trusted device and can be used to access the account from that
device seamlessly without having to generate a new factor.

## Resources

- [Quick Start](https://github.com/Web3Auth/web3auth-core-kit-examples/tree/main/mpc-core-kit-ios/mpc-core-kit-ios-quick-start):
  Get Started with an easy to follow integration of Web3Auth

- [Example Applications](https://github.com/Web3Auth/web3auth-core-kit-examples/tree/main/mpc-core-kit-ios):
  Explore our example applications and try the SDK yourself.

- [Troubleshooting](/troubleshooting): Find quick solutions to common issues faced by developers.

- [Source Code](https://github.com/web3auth/mpc-core-kit-swift): Web3Auth is open sourced. You can
  find the source code on our GitHub repository.

- [Community Support Portal](https://web3auth.io/community): Join our community to get support from
  our team and other developers.

## Helper SDKs

### Web3 Provider

#### [web3-swift-mpc-provider](https://github.com/tkey/web3-swift-mpc-provider)

This package gives access to tss signing capabilities to be used with mpc-core-kit-swift. This comes
in handy by providing you with a standard way of retriving user's address and interacting with
blockchain. As of now, it only supports Ethereum.
