---
title: What is Web3Auth?
image: "images/docs-meta-cards/documentation-card.png"

description: "What is Web3Auth | Documentation - Web3Auth"
---

import ModalAnim from "@site/src/components/ModalAnim";
import SDKReferenceCards from "@site/src/components/SDKReferenceCards";

Web3Auth is a pluggable wallet infrastructure for Web3 wallets and applications. It streamlines the
onboarding of both mainstream and crypto native users in under a minute by providing experiences
that they're most comfortable with. With support for all OAuth-based login systems, web & mobile
native platforms, Web3Auth provides a seamless onboarding experience for your users.

## What does Web3Auth do?

By integrating Web3Auth into your decentralized application (dApp) or blockchain wallet, you can
significantly streamline the user onboarding process, making it an effortless and straightforward
experience for your users. At the same time, Web3Auth allows you to retain the non-custodial
characteristic of your wallet management system, which means users maintain full control and
ownership of their cryptographic wallets, reinforcing the principles of privacy and security
inherent in blockchain technology.

<ModalAnim />

**Versatile Sign-in Options & Passwordless Registration:** Users can sign up through various OAuth
providers such as Google, Twitter, GitHub, etc., or opt for a passwordless registration where a
sign-in link is sent directly to their email.

**Customizable Login Systems:** Developers have the flexibility to create their own login systems,
incorporating traditional methods and Web3Auth's wallet management infrastructure. This can be
integrated into existing user bases or authentication processes without the need for migration.

**Comprehensive Web3 Wallet/Key Management**: Web3Auth's MPC-based wallet management infrastructure
provides secure, non-custodial wallet management, where users maintain control of their
cryptographic key pair. The login service only accesses a single share, preventing the provider from
retrieving the user's wallet independently.

**Effortless Wallet Recovery:** Multiple-factor authentication methods, such as social accounts,
email, SMS, or trusted devices, facilitate easy key recovery. Users can restore their wallets
without fear of losing them.

## Is Web3Auth a Wallet?

Web3Auth isn't a wallet itself but serves as an essential wallet infrastructure that can be
integrated seamlessly into any application. It's primary function is to offer more tailored flows
for decentralized applications (dApps) or even blockchain wallets alike, solving the user onboarding
and key management problem.

For a dApp, using a traditional wallet might seem straightforward, but it can limit control over the
user flow and necessitate users' understanding of complex blockchain transactions. Web3Auth helps
avoid these complications by allowing for customized flow adjustments based on specific needs.

Implementing Web3Auth yields a standard cryptographic key provider unique to each user and
application. This key provider can be used to sign transactions or perform other wallet operations
gives developers the flexibility to create a custom wallet within their application or utilize one
of Web3Auth's pre-existing external wallet adapters.

Although it significantly enhances wallet functionality, it's important to note that Web3Auth
remains a wallet infrastructure, not a wallet in itself.

## Is Web3Auth Scalable?

> With the latest infrastructure updates in Web3Auth, it has become a **horizontally scalable,
> globally distributed, secure, and reliable** key management infrastructure.

Earlier versions of Web3Auth Networks faced challenges in achieving horizontal scalability and often
experienced latency issues across diverse geographical regions. This was primarily due to the fixed
number of nodes in the network, which made it difficult to adjust and scale effectively in response
to fluctuating load levels. To address these issues, Web3Auth launched the Sapphire Network, a
significant infrastructure upgrade designed to enhance the scalability and performance of Web3Auth.

Web3Auth's Sapphire Network is a globally available, horizontally scalable and fault-tolerant
network that ensures an extremely fast, lightweight, and modular authentication system for a new
generation of dApps. Under the hood, Sapphire retains our distributed MPC architecture and operates
each “node” setup globally. Each “node” setup runs a coordinator that deploys Kubernetes
orchestrations in different regions. These orchestrations sync within the “nodes” themselves and
communicate with other nodes to conduct distributed key generations (DKGs), TSSs and resharing
schemes. This allows for:

- Sapphire is to be available in multiple regions around the world - currently US Central, South
  America, Asia and West Europe, with more to come. This directly contributes to uniform low login,
  authentication and signing speeds across the globe.

- Regional orchestrations operate on a stateless horizontally scalable architecture on demand,
  unlocking prior key generation bottlenecks. This means that, as the number of users and requests
  increase, the network can effortlessly expand its capacity to handle them, ensuring seamless,
  uninterrupted service for all users, regardless of global demand.

- Retaining our distributed architecture means the same unparalleled level of security and fault
  tolerance in the system. In its three years of operation, our legacy mainnet has never gone down -
  and we can expect the same or even better guarantees for Sapphire

## How can I use Web3Auth?

Web3Auth offers user-friendly Software Development Kits (SDKs) that are versatile and easily
integrated into your system to enhance user experience. Our support extends to all blockchain
networks currently available, making it a universally compatible solution for your users.

<SDKReferenceCards />
